.TH SHAIRPORT-TUI 1 "June 2026" "shairport-tui 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shairport-tui \- terminal dashboard and control surface for Shairport Sync
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shairport-tui
[\fB--interval\fR \fISECONDS\fR]
[\fB--config\fR \fIFILE\fR]
[\fB--no-color\fR]
.br
.B shairport-tui
\fB--doctor\fR
.br
.B shairport-tui
\fB--clear-history\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B shairport-tui
shows Shairport Sync AirPlay receiver status, now-playing metadata, estimated
progress, volume, client information, service health, audio output details,
recent logs, and connection history.
.PP
The main view focuses on playback. Press
.B d
to open the debug view for service, audio, history, and log details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -i ", " --interval " " \fISECONDS\fR
Set the automatic refresh interval.
.TP
.BR --doctor
Check D-Bus, Shairport Sync, systemd services, journal access, and audio state.
.TP
.BR --clear-history
Delete saved connection history and exit.
.TP
.BR --config " " \fIFILE\fR
Read configuration from a JSON file.
.TP
.BR --write-config
Write a default configuration file and exit.
.TP
.BR --no-color
Disable color output.
.TP
.BR --version
Print the version and exit.
.SH KEYS
.TP
.B Space
Play or pause.
.TP
.B n / p
Next or previous track.
.TP
.B + / -
Volume up or down.
.TP
.B m
Toggle mute.
.TP
.B s
Stop playback.
.TP
.B d
Toggle main and debug views.
.TP
.B 0-4
Filter debug view: all, services, audio, history, logs.
.TP
.B j/k, arrows, f/b, g/G
Scroll the debug view.
.TP
.B C
Clear connection history after confirmation.
.TP
.B ? or h
Show help.
.TP
.B q or Esc
Quit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/shairport-tui/config.json
Optional configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/shairport-tui/history.json
Connection history.
.SH AUTHOR
Oscar Tian
